The next step is to add the product details to the page.
For this, I've preloaded some product data,
and I'm going to pass it to the generateCatalog method.
The method will accept a list of products,
and in the method we'll iterate over the list and display them on the PDF page.
To add an image in PDFBox, you can use the PDImageXObject class.
Create an image object, prodImage,
and inside the for loop we'll call PDImageXObject.creatFromFile method,
passing in the image file name of the product object,
p.getImageFile, and the document object,
catalog.
You should also know that there are different ways in
which you can add an image to a PDF.
There are different methods for that in the API.
Now we should draw the image to the content stream by calling drawImage method,
passing in the image object,
the x and y coordinates where we intend to start drawing our image on the page,
and the width and height of the image.
So let's give 50 for x and 525 for y,
and give the width of the image to be the width of the image
itself by calling prodImage.getWidth and prodImage.getHeight
as the height of the image.
Let me show you what this means in the PDF document.
The image will start drawing itself in an x coordinate
like this and a y coordinate like this.
The images that we are using are placed inside the
images folder under resources right here,
and all images have a width of 225 pixels and a height of 225 pixels.
When converted to inches, it would be approximately 2 inches,
which would become around 144 PDF units.
So from this point,
the image will be drawn 144 PDF units to the right and 144 PDF units to the top.
Now, as you may have guessed already,
the images should be placed one below the other.
Therefore, the y coordinate should change when displaying each product image.
Precisely,
it should reduce itself in an amount equal to the height of the product image.
So we define a variable, imageY, and change it here,
and reduce it like this, ImageY = imageY ‑ prodImage.getHeight.
All right, now if we save and run the application again, you should see the product images added to the page like this.